My motivation for learning high-performance computing is to better handle my research at William & Mary's geoLab with Dr. Runfola. We were recently given a debrief on the Kubernetes cluster, and I am a bit familiar with how to schedule jobs for a given machine in the HPC (although I don't know the specifics, nor mastered the terminology, which I hope to accomplish in this class). In our lab, we are dealing with many spatial data points representing a grid. We are entering the stage of high-performance computing in order to accomplish our team's goals the best (and really only) way. My goals for the course are to refamiliarize myself with Git after taking Principles of Programming Languages, where I began to learn the Shell. I also wish to be confident in my ability to create reproducible projects since, after working this summer with DNREC to create reproducible spatial maps to place community solar hubs across Delaware, starting with a small city. Although it wasn’t code-heavy, we included a GIS Tutorial in our deliverables, keeping in mind that the partners might not be familiar with this technology. This essentially gave me perspective on the necessity of ensuring a project is reproducible and keeping track of the steps I take. In terms of planning my approach to learning the course content this semester, I plan to dedicate weekends to the readings and starting assignments, and review and practice throughout the week what we learn in class.

The structure I created in Assignment 1 is good for reproducible research because I included a README in the file structure, which contains all of the documentation of the code I used with Git and the Shell to create this file structure, ensuring that if you ran it again, it would recreate the folder structure. I did clone my repository from GitHub to ensure correct submission, but that doesn't apply to the creation of the folder structure itself. Although I didn't include metadata yet because this assignment is just regarding the format of the file structure for this project, metadata is one of the more important things to include in your submitted code because it includes details like software versions, when data was downloaded, and what version it is, as stated in the Assignment 1 reading. So if, for example, I did have raw data, I would make sure to note where and when I got it from and the version of the computer language I used to process this data in the README. My understanding of why we use documented code to do computational research tasks is so that we can rerun all steps, especially the key ones of an analysis, if need be, since they are documented and explained. Especially ensuring comments in the code where the user can change certain things to their choosing. For example, if they decided to change the name of the commit message in git, you could make sure to note that, especially since some people dealing with this code might not come from a strong computer background and need to create a team repository for collaboration, as we discussed in class.

Lastly, I just want you to know I'm super excited to learn how this all works, especially since I understand there are special password permissions protecting our university’s HPCs. I have a strong background in Computer Science, along with Data Science, as I will have completed the Computer Science Minor this semester. I hope to learn specifically the intersection with biology since I understand that was the original purpose of the class, and expand the kind of data I'm familiar with working with, especially as it increases in scale. I also noticed that when pushing my changes to my GitHub repo, I got many ".DS_Store" files in my folders. I learned that this is uniquely a Mac thing after you open a folder, but I wanted to clarify that I opened the folders just to check that my files were present in my home laptop, and completed the assignment with Shell commands and pushed to my repo using Git.